This is the second video for section 2.7. Derivatives and rates of change. In this video, we're going to do one thing.
We are going to find the equation of a line. Tangent to the graph of a function at a point.
Very standard thing to do in calculus one once you learn about derivatives. So here's the question we're going to answer.
Find the equation of the line. Tangent to f of x equals x squared minus x. The point or at the x value x equals 3.
Okay, so how do we solve something like this? So notice that the thing we are looking for is ultimately the equation of a line.
So where we should start. Is a quick review of our formulas for lines. The first one is the one that I think most of us learned first.
And that's the slope intercept form of a line. Let's plus b where m is the slope.
Why? Excuse me. The Y intercept. There's lots of really great reasons why the slope intercept form is the first way we learn about a line.
But I'm gonna claim that for us, this is not. As useful as we need it to be.
This is not the best form of the line. I want us to focus on this thing called the point slope form of a line.
The front of the line. Is wide-minded. Why? No.
Equals MX minus x naught. Where M is still the slope. And x naught one not.
Is a point. On the Okay, so I'm gonna make the claim that it's this point slope formula that's going to be so much more useful for us.
That I want us to use. And the reason for that is notice that there are really just 1, 2, 3 things I need.
Any. I need M. And I need X not. If I can find those 3 quantities, I am.
And actually one of them is just handed to us for free. The ex we need. Is given to us right here.
It is. 3. Why not is also easy to find one. I can just use this formula.
3 or it's not. And that gives me 3 squared is 9 minus 3 is 6. So I can write that as the X naught Y not the point on my graph that I'm interested in is the point 3.
Excellent. The last thing I need is M. And M is my slow. And this was absolutely impossible to find.
Until we started talking about derivatives. And I know that the slope I'm looking for is the.
Of this function at. 3 and there are 2 right because the derivative at 3 is the slope of the function at 3.
It's the slope of the line. Tangent to the function at 3. And this is the limit.
As Okay. Minus 3. Over x minus 3. There's a second definition for the derivative, but I'm going to use this one.
This becomes, As X. After that, that's still. Where minus. As of 3, I've already found it.
It's 60, x minus 3. I wish I could plug in 3 of course I get 0 divided by 0.
But I bet. And the price is long enough. Yeah. Okay, x minus plus this must be a 3.
And a 2 over x minus 3 and sure enough, wouldn't you know? These cancel. And I'm taking the limit as X approaches 3 of x plus 2.
And that gives me 5. Perfect. So now I have all the pieces that I need. All I have to do is plug in 6.
5 and 3 for why not m and x not Why minus? Okay, equals 5. X minus 3.
And I think this is a perfectly reasonable answer. And suppose for whatever reason you're asked to put it into slope intercept form, not a big deal.
Y minus 6 is equal to 5 x. Minus 15. So y is equal. 2 5 x minus 9.
Right, now let's take these real fast and let's come over here and look at. Look at this other screen.
Here we go. So here I am graphing or I have the graph of x squared minus x.
And the point we're interested in is when x equals 3. And notice that I zooms right in on this point right here.
And now I'm going to type in my y minus 6 equals 5. X minus 3 whole and look at what happens.
Look how great this is. Notice that the red line, the red parabola and the green graph are certainly different.
But when I zoom in, see how that that green line comes in just barely touches the graph and then continues on.
And it's so close that if I zoom in close enough, it's impossible to tell the difference between there's the parabola.
There's the graph, sorry, the line. There's the parabola. There's the line.
You can't really tell the difference when you zoom in super close. And then just to show you that what we did was okay.
Is that a, y equals 5 x minus 9. Look at that. There's my, point slope.
There's my slope intercept and notice that the they give me the exact same line. So either line is perfectly active.
Okay, we find the, for wine tangent to graphs. We're gonna do lots of these so this is an important one.
Make sure you can do lots of these. So this is an important one. Make sure you can do this basic, so this is an important one.
Make sure you can do this basic one on your own, from beginning to end before you start attend